the question I really want to ask is how
much different with the university
system be if it were actually trying to
help students instead of merely judging
them instead of sifting them if higher
education in both high school and
university if it existed to actually try
to create capacity in the students
create the competence to do things in
the students if that was their goal if
that were their highest priority instead
of judging them and assigning them a
numbered grade working from the premise
that the institution creates
opportunities which is of course only
one side of the coin the other side of
the coin is that they constrain
opportunities the news today being
reported by The Wall Street Journal the
New York Times just in the last few
hours
is that a new system will assign bonus
points will assign higher scores will
give higher grades to student applicants
reflecting the poverty of the
neighborhood they grew up in now all
students are unequal and there's a huge
question in education I've even been
asked this in job interviews lately
education for small children high school
students University students there's a
question of how the educator and how the
institution will genuinely help students
who begin at different levels of ability
so that they can finish with sufficient
if not equal competence this is most
extreme and most easily demonstrated in
language education
I read the autobiography of a refugee
from Myanmar who managed to go to
university in England in the United
Kingdom so obviously he had a descent at
disadvantaged background he grew up in
Myanmar and then he became a refugee he
had to run away and live in the
goal and ran away to a refugee camp this
is his story and obviously also his
ability in English was not equal to
students in England who spoke English as
their first language I think English was
maybe his third language having spoken
two different languages in Burma now
called Myanmar how how would you help
this student is the way to help this
student giving him a higher score giving
him a higher grade because of his
disadvantageous background his childhood
in poverty coming for refugee camp no
not if the purpose of education is to
actually create competence actually to
give this kid the ability to do real
things for the rest of his life in this
case the guy was actually a major in
English literature now in his
autobiography this particular guy's name
is Pascal cool way in his autobiography
he notes that he would not have been
able to complete his university
education without a special intervention
from a tutor this is tutor in a very
formal sense really a supervisor I guess
you'd say who wrote a letter saying look
this kid is smart this kid is talented
but obviously he does not have the level
of ability in the English language to do
this at the same speed as the other
students so in his case what you want to
do is lower the requirement for the
number of courses being taken
simultaneously right most universities
have this you have to take eight courses
simultaneously or maybe four courses per
semester whatever it is there's some
minimum number of course you have to
take the sentences look for this kid if
he's really gonna do all this reading in
English he can't read as quickly as as
the native speakers in English so in his
case bring it down to a lower number of
courses and give him extra hours of
tutoring and assistance and then he's
going to be able to do it he's gonna be
able to succeed and he did that's what
happened okay we see that's actually
helping the student
and it takes time and consideration and
effort and resources on the part of the
professor now let's say in theory we're
talking about students from poor de 7
disadvantaged neighborhoods the United
States who went to a bad high school and
they have very very limited ability in
chemistry maybe their their high school
didn't teach chemistry at all or was
just awful it's just an absolutely
terrible high school level education in
chemistry and then they want to go to
university and they have to take a
number of chemistry courses because they
want to be a doctor
they want to be a nurse they want to be
a dentist oh let's even say they want to
be a chemical engineer whatever that's
the field that want to go into but their
high school has prepared them very
poorly does it help them to boost their
score to give them a higher grade to
give them a higher grade in the entry
exam through this this new system
they've unrolled the adversity score
recognizing their hardship to let them
in to the course say well given your
poverty given the neighborhood we're
going to pretend that you're competent
in chemistry we're going to pretend you
have a level of ability in chemistry
high enough to succeed in this course
when you don't well bad news now you've
been led into the university you've been
led into the chemistry course for the
medical program with Chemical Engineer
program whatever majors you've been
you've been given access you've been
quote-unquote given the opportunity but
now you're gonna sink you're not going
to swim or you're gonna have to work ten
times as hard as all the other students
because you're starting from up from a
different mark you're not starting from
the same starting line and you're racing
to get to the same finish line and
you're expected to compete and to be
assigned a grade and for that grade to
sit on your permanent record and
determine your fate for the rest of your
life so what does the system exist for
is it just to judge you is it like
judging your soul as if you're born with
an innate ability to do chemistry and
that's all they want to evaluate or is
it actually here to help you stack here
to build build your capacity one of the
very simplest changes for these
institutions that wouldn't require
assigning more teachers or more more
quality face-to-face time to professors
and students which there's almost none
of one of the easiest ways they could
change this would be allowing students
to take the same course twice okay if
you went to a bad high school you don't
really have the background in chemistry
you need to do university level
chemistry do the course twice take the
whole course
maybe you get a c-minus maybe get a deep
whatever it is and then the university
can say okay do it again all of us all
of us I think I could say even if you're
naturally brilliant and gifted in
chemistry if you did the same chemistry
course twice I think you would learn
more you'd gain real more more more
capacity more ability you'd probably
memorize more at the more of the text
you'd practice more you'd come out at a
higher level ability than if you just
did the course once but if you started
at a real disadvantage where you were
struggling to learn the vocabulary and
the key words and struggling to do the
equation struggling to do this stuff and
then you've given a chance to do it
again that could be a really positive
thing that would change the whole
Western life we've mentioned a few times
on this channel that my girlfriend who
didn't grow up coold on quote
disadvantaged you know her father was a
successful businessman you know they had
a house and two cars you know they had a
they reached the American suburban
middle-class ideal lifestyle in the
greater Detroit area in Michigan her
whole life was really ruined for a
decade because she had one bad
experience with one chemistry course at
one University and she knows if she had
just taken the same chemistry course at
another University the way they test the
way they teach the number of students
per class the actual format for the
exams it would have been much better for
her at the first seat on the street than
has it happened the University she was
she was enrolled in I could tell stories
like that out of my own out of my own
experience too but in this system you
get one chance
sink or swim and the type of
disadvantages and advantages people have
are not always going to show up on these
forms right look whether or not you
really grew up speaking English whether
or not you grew up speaking the language
being studied at University of Victoria
I took the level 1 Japanese class there
was a lot wrong with the Japanese
classes Japanese language
the class started being a certain length
which I guess would have been three and
a half months and then they cut it in
half to make it an intensive course and
then they cut it in half again to make
it an intensive summer course so this
was supposed to be like four months of
learning in only a couple of weeks and
this is with memorizing huge amount of
vocabulary which in Japanese includes
very complex brushstroke patterns okay
and what do you know everyone who did
well in that class either one was
ethnically Japanese or two was
ethnically Chinese even though Chinese
is a very different language you have a
huge advantage starting a level one
Japanese course if you're already
completely fluent in Chinese - Xu Guan
becomes toe Shogun and toe Shogun is
written absolutely identically brush
stroke for brush stroke with - Xu Guan
so oh it's not an even playing field and
I talked about this the professor's
helped this with several professors said
look so I think I was like 36 years old
the time it's like look I'm older than
these other students I've studied like
eight languages or something I'm an
incredibly disciplined student of
languages with a lot of experience I'm
waking up at 6 a.m. and studying for
hours before I come to class and I can't
do this I can't succeed and remember
once that professor to me
oh but look at Amy it needs to be great
I said Amy's mother is Japanese
she literally grew up singing karaoke in
Japanese yes she's doing great
the push is someone who starts with zero
ability in Japanese which is what the
course was listed for can't can't
succeed in this course here's thing at
the end of the course I requested to
take the same course again
look I don't know this material only had
like 3 weeks to learn this material
instead of like three and a half months
so I need the opportunity to take this
course again and I said if I can't take
it again like I if I can't actually
change my grade do the course gonna do
better
then let me audit the course let me take
the course without getting a grade so
it's because how can I continue how come
my career
when I haven't learned what's in the
level one Japanese course this
completely sets me up to fail in the
level two Japanese course and the rest
of my life the rest of my career and I
was told absolutely not because the
system doesn't exist to help people it
doesn't exist actually build capacity in
the students and most real capacity can
be objectively verified like can you
speak Japanese or not do you know this
material or not can you do this equation
involving chemistry or not you know if
you if you raise my grade because of my
verse that course they could have done
that they could have said okay everyone
who's fluent in Chinese is your first
language we're gonna lower your grade by
10%
everyone who grew up if your mom was
Japanese we're gonna lower your grade by
20% and you people you know people who
actually speak English and came this
close with no prior ability in Japanese
we're gonna raise your grade by somebody
you could do that you could do that that
would be like this new ACC sorry SAT
adversity score system right but that
won't change the inequality in your
actual capacity your actual ability to
speak English read and understand
Japanese do chemical engineering
whatever it is that you're supposed to
be actually teaching so I know it
doesn't sound terribly theoretically
sophisticated it's not but there's
actually a paradigm shift that would
transform the whole system if it's focus
and purpose we're creating ability in
the students and we're not quote-unquote
creating opportunity and at the same
time constraining opportunity by the
assignation of grades